This video will cover assertions for arrays,
iterables, and lines.
We'll start with the first method here,
assertArrayEquals.
Basically asserts that both object arrays are deeply equal.
And here's the code that we're going to test.
In our DemoUtils class we have a string array,
firstThreeLettersOfAlphabet, ABC,
and we have a supporting getter method for it.
And then we'll have this test method,
testArrayEquals.
In the top-right we have the actual code that we're testing,
just as a reference.
So, we'll define an array locally in this test
and we'll compare the array
with the actual item defined in DemoUtils.
In the coding here we'll have assert array equals,
we give stringArray comma
demoutils.getFirstThreeLettersOfAlphabet,
and we'll see if those are equal.
We run the unit tests
and everything's all green,
the test passes.
So we know that these two arrays are equal deeply.
The next assertion that we'll take a look at
is assertIterableEquals.
This asserts that both object iterables are deeply equal.
Now, what exactly is iterable?
(Narrator laughs)
An iterable is an instance of a class
that implements the java.lang.Iterable interface.
So some examples include ArrayList, LinkedList,
HashSet, TreeSet, so on.
So anything that we can iterate over.
As far as the code to test,
we have this list of strings called academyInList
and then we have List.of, luv, 2, code.
So this will actually create a list of strings for us.
And then the appropriate getter method.
So we basically want to make some comparisons
against this list in our test code.
Moving over to our DemoUtils tests,
we have this test method:
testIterableEquals.
In the top-right we have the actual code that we're testing,
just as a reference.
And then we have this list of strings that we set up here,
List.of luv 2 code.
And then we make a comparison against the field.
So, here I have assertIterableEquals theList
comma demoutils.getacademyInList.
We run this unit test and then it passes as desired.
And then the last assertion method
that we'll take a look at is assertLinesMatch.
And here we basically assert
that both lists of strings match.
Looking at our code to test,
again we'll make use of this academyInList
that we saw earlier, luv 2 code.
We're going to make comparisons against this list.
And then in our DemoUtils test,
we have this method testLinesMatch.
We create this list and then we have assertLinesMatch.
We give theList comma demoutils.getacademyInList.
Here, lines should match.
So we run this test case and everything passes as desired.
All righty, so this all looks really good.
Let's go ahead and move into the next video
and let's start writing some code.